================================
KIP 5: Chatter Phase 1, Pushdown
================================

As mentioned in :doc:`kip-0004`, we are breaking the Chatter work in
phases, for analysis/development/deployment simplicity.

This phase is focused on the Chatter functionality available in the
Chatter :doc:`pushdown <kip-0002>` panel. This is not enough
functionality to deploy a basic Chatter, but is a useful starting
point. Since we don't have the full UX, we might have to dummy up some
data (e.g. friends, messages.)

.. note::

   The word ``quip`` is a placeholder for the final word we'll use to
   name an item that is Chattered.

Features
========

Details
=======

User Stories
============

Below are users stories related to that panel.

Jane sees that she has new quips
--------------------------------

Popper (the UX in Bottlecap) checks with KARL every N seconds to see if
there is anything new. This is described in :doc:`kip-0006`. Jane sees
her Chatter's notification box change to say there is one new quip. She
clicks Chatter to see what's new, thus activating the pushdown panel.

Spec:

- Show the number of "unread" items based on what Notification says is
  for Chatter, for you

Questions:

- How do we track the concept of unread, especially if we can't show
  all the items in the first 5 batch-full?


Jane quick-scans recent quips
-----------------------------

The Chatter pushpanel provides a short list (e.g. 5) of the most recent
messages. As shown in the screenshot above, there are two lists:

- Quips "about" Jane, either quips she has posted, quips that
  mention her, or direct messages

- Quips from people or tags that Jane is watching

Spec:

- Show the N most recent items in each list, where N is under the
  control of the server, likely to be 5 to start with

- Each column corresponds to a view in the full Chatter UX

- Below each column, provide a link to visit that view in Chatter,
  e.g. to get the full listing of quips

- If the pushdown panel is open and new stuff comes in,
  it gets inserted in a visual way (e.g. animate in-place),
  to give the user a visual cue that something arrived


Jane quick-adds a new quip
--------------------------

Jane is on an interesting page in KARL and wants to chatter about it.
She clicks the pushdown which has a box on the left that lets her post
a quip.

Spec:

- Provide visual cues that show something is being transmitted,
  has been received correctly in KARL, or had an error

- Always provide some way to bail out and clear a hung transmission

- Regular textarea, no visual formatting

- Interprets ``@`` and ``#`` correctly

- Has a gesture for referring quickly to the page you are on and
  chattering about it

- Other features (reply, re-chatter, attachments, private messaging) are
  in other specs


Jane visits the full Chatter UX
-------------------------------

Notes
=====

- Explain read vs. unread

- Display read vs. unread in different colors

- Ellipsis when there are more read, "1 more new item" for more unread

- Always show a minimum number, even if read

- Avatars for people

- Notifications in-KARL

- Connection to Feeds

- Vectors

  - People (me, friends, colleagues, staff, all)

  - Topics (aka tags)

  - References (retweets)

  - Replies

  - Featured

- Explain @ and #, as well as #this, tags

- Explain the drop-down on Speak

- See that I have new quips.

- Quick-add a new quip

- Direct a quip at a @person or a @topic

- Quick-view a list of quips directed at me

- Quick-view a list of quips that I'm interested in

- Start/stop watching someone in KARL

- Quick-requip a quip that I am reading