==========================
KIP 2: UX2 Quick Reskin
==========================

Cosmetic restling changes on UX2 to better connote UX1,
based on feedback from OSF internal communications.

UX2 Goals
=========

As a reminder, below are some of the original degign goals of the UX2
project:

- "Fresh look for a fresh look"

- Distraction-free

- Focus more on content

- Clear separation between chrome and content

- Responsive design (works at different screen widths)

- Focused more on readability

- Flexible, fluid layout

- Where appropriate, cleanup some shared things in content (forms,
  grids, etc.)

- Understand app vs. website distinction

UX2 Quick Re-Skin Goals
=======================

In this initial effort, we're avoiding structural changes and simply
changing some quick cosmetics. The desired effects:

- Return to some of the aesthetic of UX1

- Take some commonality from the new soros.org redesign (fonts,
  portlet styling)

Actions
=======

Starting with the highest priority:

#. ``font-family`` based on soros.org (i.e. Helvetica, Arial,
   sans-serif)

#. ``font-size`` halfway between now and UX1/soros.org

#. Section menu gets a lighter, grayish background (instead of the
   aqua/green/blue current background.)

#. Section tools (blog, etc.) get a non-shadowed font

#. Remove beige background color in the content area.

#. Portlet styling directly stolen from soros.org to give a less-boxy,
   app-y feeling:

    - No outer box or background color

    - Top heading, bold, all caps

    - Separate rows with lines to allow wrapping

    - All combine to connote a box

    - Applies to left/middle column portlets as well

    - Get rid of "more" as a button, instead have a link in the bottom
      of the box, right aligned

#. Inactive section tools also don't get "de-emphasized". If needed,
   make inactive section tabs "pop more" (i.e. don't use a color so
   close to the background color). We hope that removing the shadow on
   inactive labels is enough.

#. Make action menu buttons be more compact

#. Move tagbox under the resource title. Along the way,
   make the tagbox more compact:

   - Smaller font

   - Shorter height on both the tags and the "New Tag" button. The
     former is 22px high, the latter is 25 px high. Perhaps both can be
     20 or 22 px.

   - Lighten the tag backgrounds (one for things I tagged,
     one for things others tagged) to not stand out too much.

   - Make the input box for adding a new tag a *lot* thinner. Perhaps 12
     characters before it starts scrolling. It currently goes to 20 and
     then scrolls, even though 40% of the right margin is empty.

#. Instead of "MORE New York News", just say "more...". We don't need to
   repeat the "New York News", it's in the header 100 px up. This means
   we have to find where in the code this is generated.

#. Perhaps a *little* more padding/space between columns. Perhaps 50%
   more than the current value.

#. Make the right columns on communities less wide,
   perhaps 30-50% less than the current width.

Questions
=========

- If we move the tag box over, and we have some

Notes
=====

